h1. "Recess! PHP Framework":http://www.recessframework.org/

Welcome to the Recess Framework Preview! Let's have some fun...

h2. Requirements

* Apache
* mod_rewrite suggested
* PHP 5.1 or greater (tested on 5.2.6)

h2. Installation Process

# Unzip contents into your web documents path (i.e. public_html)
# On a development machine make these directories writeable by PHP:
## apps/
## recess/temp/
## recess/sqlite/
# Open recess-conf.php and set RecessConf::$defaultDatabase
## If using MySQL: Uncomment the 'mysql:...' line and fill in DBNAME/USER/PASS
## If using Sqlite: Uncomment the 'sqlite:...' line and name the database
# Do you have mod_rewrite?
## Yes: Open your browser to the location you unzipped
## No: Open your browser to the location you unzipped followed by index.php
# If you see "Welcome to Recess!" we're ready to rock.
# The URL you are currently at will be referenced {$installUrl}

h2. Recess Tools Mini-tutorial

# Browse to http://{$installUrl}/recess/ (i.e. http://localhost/recess)
# Do you see Recess Tools? Good.
# Click 'Database'
## Make sure your default database shows up.
# Click 'Apps' and let's start a new app
## Click 'Start a New Application'
## Human name: My First Recess App
## Programmatic name: FirstApp [NEXT]
## Url prefix: firstApp/ [NEXT]
## Follow instructions to activate your first app.
## In a new tab browse to http://{$installUrl}/firstApp/
## Do you see a Hello page? Great.
# Back in Recess Tools click 'Apps'
# Click on 'My First Recess App' - this is your app dashboard.
# Click on 'new' beside of Models
## Name the model Post
## Select 'Table does not exist.'
## Add 2 properties: 
### title => String
### body => Text
## Click 'Generate Model'
## Click 'Generate Scaffolding'
## In your other tab browse to http://{$installUrl}/firstApp/post
## Try creating a new post.
# In your editor open the apps dir in your Recess install location.
## Poke around in here to get a sense of what Tools just generated.
# From here have fun, keep tinkering, and stay tuned to RecessFramework.org

h2. On the Horizon

Following the preview the priorities of Recess are:

* Tutorials and Documentation (!!!)
* Forms and Validation (Fairly naive in this preview release.)
* Friendlier Production-mode Error Pages
* More REST: Content-negotiation, HEAD, OPTIONS, etc.
* More powerful Models

Stay tuned, ask questions, and get involved at RecessFramework.org.

Enjoy Recess!

Kris Jordan

http://www.krisjordan.com/

http://www.twitter.com/KrisJordan